Now to come to an end in this very long module but rebuild an entire reactor up from scratch.
I want to make sure that when we click log in or sign up we don't just locks to the console but we instead
do log the user in at least we fake to do so we can't really lock the user in because we have no back
end where we would send and validate the data.
But at least we can change something on the user interface.
For example if we are logged in.
I don't want to see the authenticate button here.
Instead a logout button would be nice.
I also don't want to see my places if I'm not locked in because we can only reach our places if we are
logged in.
So I want to manage the log in status of the user in the react application here even though we have
no full log in flow yet we're missing the back end to manage that status.
We need a brand new react concept which is called context context allows us to pass data between any
components in our application without using props.
And that is very useful if you have some general application white data like is the user logged in.
So such a central vital question which affects a lot of parts in your application which you simply don't
want to pass around with props because that would be madness.
You would have to pass props from everywhere to everywhere.
It would be super annoying.
So context is some behind the scenes data transfer mechanism you could say and it's built right into
react now to use context I will add a new folder in the shared folder next to components and hooks and
I will name it.
Well context the name is up to you but I will manage some context in there.
So I guess the name makes sense in there.
I'll add a.
Off dash context.
J.S. file and here I will import create context from.
React a function react offers.
We can call it to create such a context object which we later can share between our components to share
some data behind the scenes we can initialized with some initial data and there it will have a very
simple piece of data.
I'll have to is logged in key which initially is false and I will have a log in function which here
is just an empty function for the moment.
I don't want to have a logout function as well so a method to be precise because it's a function in
object and that is called a method.
So what is logged in is a property in this object with which we initialize our context and we got log
in and log out as methods they're now all stored is in a constant off context and it will export this
constant.
So this is my off context does it some object we can now share between components and when we updated
any component that kind of listens to it will always update.
However we're not ready to use it just like this.
There is a reason why it's not a regular javascript object but why we have to created with create context
in the end because with our context created we can now go to app J.S..
So to a place in our application that is on top of our component hierarchy you could say an app component
is clearly at the very top it's our root component if you want to call it like this in there I'll import
off context from shared context
of context and now how do we use of context there we wrap the parts of our application that should be
able to use that context with it.
So here we have the entire router.
In the end I go there and wrap everything the entire router with off context dot provider.
So does context which is created with the help of create context.
Indian is the object which has a property which turns out to be a react component the provider property.
So we use this component here and wrap our entire router with it with off context provider.
Now every component in there like main navigation and every loaded page and every component used in
a page has access to this off context.
That's one nice thing.
Now the provider also takes a value prop.
And here we bind the value we manage with our context which we initialize to this object here we bind
this to a new value we bind this initial value to a new value.
And whenever this value here changes all the components that listen to our context so that actively
tap into the context will re render not all the components that are wrapped by all context provider
but only two components where we then will add some code to listen to our context.
And now that's a cool thing we can now manage some state here in the app component and bind this to
the value of our context and hence when the state here changes and the value changes and this component
renders because our state changed we will be able to rebrand or update the components that are interested
in our context so for that let's import use state here in our app component and also already use callback
because we'll need that as well.
And then India component let's add a new state and that is is locked in and set is locked in and with
you as a state we can initialize this and at the beginning let's say this is false then I add a log
and function here which I wrap with use callback so that it is not re created unnecessarily to avoid
infinite loops.
So my dependencies of use callback is an empty array for now.
What this means does function here will never have to be recreated now in there.
I simply want to set is locked in to true and then it will copy that and create a log out function which
looks very similar but where a set is logged in sets the locked in state to false of course and now
value here is bound to a new object where is locked in is set to hour is logged in state here and where
to log in method is set to our log and function here and log out is set to our log out function and
now whenever it just changes which is the case when is locked in changes this new value will be passed
down to all the components that are interested and that's the nice thing here.